Churchill the self-proclaimed polar bear
capital of the world is the easiest
place to see bears last year seven
thousand tourists visited during the
bear season they venture out onto the
tundra in specially-built viewing
buggies a relatively safe way to see the
Bears Gordon point right here the prime
piece of land for the berries to go on
waiting for the ice to freeze so that
they can get in to get a meal up
this window right here okay Malcolm
wanted to use the infrared camera to
study how much energy was being used by
bears in the tourist areas to see if the
disturbance was forcing them to use more
of their precious fat reserves than they
normally would if this is the case it
compounds the problems that bears here
already faced because they're feeding
season has been reduced by global
warming through the summer bears burn
about one kilogram of hat a day the more
energy they force to use the hotter they
get this bear is lying flat out to try
to keep himself cool by having as much
contact with the ice as possible to
establish reference data away from the
tourist areas we fly about 50 kilometers
away from town to a lookout tower at
cake Churchill here the terrain is bleak
and start but on a wildlife front as
many as 30 bears gather on the Cape
waiting for the sea to freeze the towel
was used as a lookout for forest fires
but 25 years ago it was moved to the
Cape so scientists could observe bears
with minimal disturbance
out here you're on your own at the mercy
of inquisitive hungry bears
there are already bears approaching so
we've got to get up this town quickly in
there get the gear up here as well
okay I hope that we can get all this
gear up there before they decide to come
and find out what we're about what we're
about polar bears are at the top of the
food chain and have no natural enemies
consequently they not particular scared
of anything when working with polar
bears you need to be constantly on guard
the cracker shells in shotgun have
bought us valuable time but only just
they're amazingly quiet only very quiet
you know you would actually a lot of
times you hear that their breathe before
they come up on you this is just
incredible it's cool do people actually
staying over numba kinds of time said
yeah there used to be a lot of research
that we know him some of the work they
did he's looking at deterrents it bears
they tested different ways to scare
bears away behavioral studies and bears
were marked as you can see there's still
some lady Claire old hair dye yes it
would mark the Bears with and then they
would be able to tell which there was
who fantastic some differences sort of
shades of brown and black yeah thnkx is
a redhead surgery yeah so what's the
sort of longest period people are
staying it oh it varies quite a bit
depending on the studies but I do know
people have stayed up out here from one
to two months haha maybe a bit longer
whoa ghana's that's a long hard time
isn't there well the depends could be an
oasis for some people yeah